hey guys welcome to another video so
today I'm going to chat with you about
my future career plans and also what I'm
going to do this summer a few months ago
I had a bit of a panic I suddenly
thought Paige what are you going to do
with your life do you have a clue and
the answer was no I really just hadn't
put much thought into it at all and I
had a meeting with my director of
studies at University and they were like
paid what are you going to do next
summer and I don't think they were
looking for the answer that I was just
gonna go on holiday and chill out so I
was like well I mean I suppose I might
do a summer internship that is what
everyone else seems to do like it's
pretty much a rite of passage for my
degree at Cambridge that you go and do a
summer internship after your second year
and I think is actually pretty common
across universities around the country
that you go and do an internship after
your second year of university or even
after your third year if you're doing a
four-year degree so I thought better
followed the crowd better keep up with
everyone else and make sure that I
actually making competitive applications
when it comes to graduate jobs so I was
like yeah I'm gonna go get an internship
it sounds like a good idea
it will keep my summer productive it
will give me experience in a
professional environment it will enhance
my skill set and I think maybe the best
thing about getting a summer internship
is that you can get a taste of a
possible future career path but not have
to commit to it you can see what it's
like and see if it's for you and I also
just quite fancies walking around in
office wearing a suit and having a
briefcase I feel like I'd feel pretty
professional pretty cool the thought
appeals to me I'm sure it will wear off
within two days of doing that but so I
was going to my University freshers fair
at the start of the year anyway and
there were quite a few stands there for
careers networks and like internship
employment help so you know I signed up
put my email down slick send me emails
and spam my inbox and I was like well
that's my step towards getting an
internship pat on the back way to go me
a few months went by and literally my
inbox just got filled with these emails
today
look at them at all no did I make any
step towards actually looking at
internships no it got to the end of term
and suddenly I was like actually I need
to get my ass into gear so I went to a
few university careers events that were
run by my University Career Service they
had separate ones for careers in stem
and careers in mathematics I don't know
I felt quite intimidating at first like
I walked in to all these stands with all
these different companies there and I
was like I'm just a student you know
like what can I offer these companies
the thought of going into the working
world it's kind of a scary thought but
I'd actually say once I got into the
swing of it I was actually talking to
representatives from these companies at
their stand it just gave me a bit of an
idea of the sorts of careers on offer to
me and what I could do with my degree I
came out of my first time at uni with
two kind of ideas in my mind of what I
might want to do in the future so the
first being going down the academia
route so going into astrophysics
research I'm a little bit of a space
geek and I just love all things space
I'm specializing in astrophysics in my
third year of uni and then the plan
would be to do a master's so a fourth
year and that'd be integrated within my
current degree and then I'd apply for a
PhD in astrophysics and then after that
I'd hopefully get research posts in
astrophysics and if I did want to go
down that route I'd be looking at
getting a research internship for the
summer and essentially it's eight weeks
you'll get given a project and a
supervisor and a taste of what life in
research is like the second idea I came
up with was to become an actuary so
actuaries use stats and modeling to
assess risk and I thought hey I could
use my numerical skills that's a
strength of mine and there's a lot of
client-facing stuff which I'd enjoy I
don't want to be just stuck behind a
desk I wanted to be interacting with
people in my job
there's tons of international
opportunities were there you can work in
all sorts of places around the world and
for that route I would obviously be
looking at getting an actuarial
internship because the research
internships are mostly run by
universities I went through a few
different
University websites to find what
internships they had an offer for the
summer and found that all the
applications won't open until like
January February this year and this was
like before Christmas last year so I was
like okay we'll put that off for now so
I actually found most of the actuarial
internships that I applied for through
bright Network which is one of the
couriers networks I signed up for at my
university freshers fair I'd highly
recommend this service I was actually
really impressed by it this is not
sponsored they're not paying me to say
this at all their website was so easy to
navigate they had all these actuarial
internships I could apply for in one
place it was really easy to understand I
was like hey applications to internships
made easy they also have a careers
advice section on their website they've
run regular events and they are
literally for students like for graduate
employment for summer internships that
is what they are all about I'll
definitely be using them if I ever need
to apply for an internship or a graduate
job again at this point I was starting
to realize that the internships were all
quite competitive and yeah I definitely
say if you are wanting to apply for
internships you've got to be prepared to
put some time into them and put some
real effort into them because there's
other people really gunning for those
spots and yeah you need to make some
strong applications the next step in the
process was building my CV since all the
internships are applying for required a
CV and I actually didn't have an
up-to-date CV at all like I was
literally starting from scratch now I
know a lot of students might think oh
hey I don't have anything I can write on
my CV like I've got no work experience I
haven't done in the thing but actually
you'll probably find this a lot of
things you do at University that
demonstrate skills and make you quite
employable for example I mentioned my
involvement with my College Boat Club
because I felt that was demonstrating
teamwork and communication with others I
mentioned an engineering scheme I did
while at sixth form also bright networks
have a CV template which is really
useful and I also use the CV templates
given to me by my universe
- Korea's service eventually it got to
January and it was time to start putting
in my applications for all the actuarial
internships I applied for five different
internships they were at willest house
but soon a on zurich LCP and mercer when
applying for internships and choosing
companies to apply for it's really
important to do a little research into
them read up about them and make sure
that you think the company is the right
fit for you and yeah at later stages in
the application they will be making sure
that you have a genuine interest in the
opportunity they have available so
they're expecting you to know a bit
about the company and why you think
you'd be an asset to their team each
company had an online forum that I had
to fill out for my applications they had
a lot of sections where you had to put
200 to 300 word answers - why do you
want to work for us what made you choose
the actuarial path just a lot of
questions asking what your motivation is
it was almost like interview questions
but you just had to type out a brief
response at the time of filling out
these online forms it was mid-term while
I was at university so it was quite
stressful because it was so
time-consuming having to put all these
applications in and keep up with my
university work at the same time but I
think it's worthwhile it just required
some good time management skills which
ironically is what a lot of the
companies are looking for good time
management after submitting all my
initial applications I heard back from
the companies a few weeks later pretty
much all of them asked me to do a online
test they were testing your numerical
skills and written skills you get like
10 minutes to do some sort of
multiple-choice question online thing
you do get the chance to do a few
practice rounds before you actually do
the real test so that's helpful some of
the online tests were actually really
fun there was this chat room one you got
these fake email of sensory to you and
your computer literally looked like an
email inbox and you had to like choose
what to reply to different people in the
company and it felt like I was actually
in an office it was it was
quite fun if you pass the online testing
stage all the companies took me through
to digital interviews this involved
having a webcam and them asking you
pre-recorded interview questions I was
like this is what I can do this is my
strength talking to a camera I do this
all the time and yeah it was okay
I definitely got better at these online
interviews as I went along normally they
ask you the question
you get like 30 seconds or something to
prepare and then they're recording you
and you have to answer for two or three
minutes and then you kind of click stop
when you've finished answering I suppose
this sort of thing varies from company
to company some companies will do phone
interviews and have an actual person
talking to you or you might have a Skype
interview and have an actual person
talking to you
but I think these pre-recorded
interviews are becoming more and more of
a thing these days and nothing to worry
about really
they were pretty relaxed pretty chill in
preparation for them I just made sure I
read up about the company and about the
position I was applying for and I had a
few examples of why I was suited to the
position and what skills I had so all
these companies run assessment centers
which is the next stage after the
digital interview and they'll invite
their favorite applicants to a day-long
assessment center and you'll take part
in team activities and one-to-one
interviews and case study exercises so
the first company I heard back from
after my digital interviews was Willis
Towers Watson and they invited me to
their assessment center slight snag was
that the assessment center was right in
the middle of my university term I had
lectures I had labs I had super visions
that day and I was like I literally
can't take a day out of University so I
emailed them and was like I'm sorry I
can't make this Assessment Center but
I'm really keen is there any way I
couldn't come in and another time or
will there be another Assessment Center
that I can attend but actually I'm going
to jump now to pass page who's going to
talk to you about what happened with my
Willis Towers Watson application after I
emailed and said I couldn't make it the
Assessment Center
so yeah pass page take it away so I've
just got some good news as well I've
just got an email that I've got an
interview for an internship that I
really want that I've applied for it's
this actuarial one basically I got
invited to the assessment center
I replied saying that I wasn't available
for the assessment center because
Cambridge terms are so intense that I
literally just could not afford to leave
Cambridge and the assessment centre was
held in Reigate which is like below
London it would have been a nightmare
getting there so I emailed back and said
I can't make it but I'm available these
days and like I'm really keen about this
internship and like I just didn't want
to have to after all the time I spent on
my application to have to like give it
up then they replied saying they they
only had like two rolls left for this
position and they probably wouldn't hold
another assessment centre but if there
was another one then they'd invite me
and then I was like oh do I want to risk
them not having any positions left so I
replied saying I might be able to shift
a few of my stuff in my timetable to
make it to the assessment centre and
then I was just gonna take the hit and
skip lectures and head down there but
then they replied saying they couldn't
secure another Assessor because
obviously it obviously invited someone
else be Assessment Center said anyway
long story short I didn't go to the
assessment centre yesterday and that was
that I was like I'm not getting this
internship anyway they're just emailed
saying because I've been so keen they'd
like to invite me to an interview and I
can do one of the exercises that they
held at the assessment centre some point
next week or the week after which is
good news I do definitely feel though
that like these companies should make
their internships accessible for people
who have got more intense degrees
because it's obviously easier for some
people because of their location to be
able to make it to the assessment centre
whereas for people like me who are maybe
slightly further from where it's held
and have quite an intense degree course
it's harder for us anyway so yeah it was
good news in the end and I managed to
get an interview opportunity at Willis
Towers Watson I honestly thought I'd
blown it for a minute I was like well
I've basically got myself rejected from
an internship way to go me but it all
turned out okay and I think the moral of
the story here is to be persistent if
you want to get anywhere
life sometimes you do need to push
yourself forwards and sometimes you do
need to send that email and be like hey
I'm just checking up on my application
they remember who you are if you keep
emailing them anyway we're gonna cut
back to past page again when I'm
preparing for my interview and then
going to the interview itself evening
everyone so I'm preparing for my
interview now and oh my god I get so so
nervous for this sort of thing
my last into you actually was my
interview for Cambridge actually it's
been a long time since I've had a proper
interview okay guys over two years now
although I have been doing the digital
interviews but it's not quite the same
like talking to a webcam is not the same
as talking to someone in real life but
I'm sure it's gonna be fine I've got to
go in there with confidence that's what
I've been telling myself if I'm nervous
and I just Ceaser up like it won't go
well I'm just making sure I'm fully
prepared this evening I am so bad at
thinking on the sport after that
interview finishes I'm gonna walk out
I'm gonna be like oh why didn't I say
that oh why didn't I say that but then I
suppose everyone has that to some extent
but just me particularly I always think
of the really good things to say like an
hour later and it's really annoying
I'm just gonna try my best if nothing
comes out there at least I tried you
know okay so you joined me today on an
exciting day it's eventful I've got an
interview for an internship but it's a
two and a half hour train journey to get
there quite please I've got to the
station on time
I've got about eight minutes to spare
I've made it outside the companies or
first time absolutely working it I've
read over stuff on the train like things
that I might want to mention like
reviewing my examples for stuff they'll
ask me in the competency interview like
tell me a time when and that I need
examples of that worth
showing my communication skills
implementing changes you know that sort
of thing I've refreshed my knowledge of
the industry I'm just gonna like be
myself go in there relax take a deep
breath the more relaxed I am the better
it will be
I'm feeling quite professional apart
from the fact that I've got my big
fluffy rucksack on and it's the one
that's got eyes on it which is not like
I've been traveling with my work I was
working on the train and I stopped in
there and I've only got this rucksack so
I couldn't really bring I could have a
briefcase or anything I'm a student
they'll understand now I've got to
figure out where reception is I'm
actually early I'm about 15 minutes
early ish should be okay Patrick oh I've
just got out oh my god oh my god like
the interview part was okay but then I
had to do this case study thing and it
just could have gone better like you had
to read through all this information and
I'm just not fast enough reader like
disaster I'm annoyed with myself I just
I know that wasn't a good performance
but you know what you had to do these
things sometimes they're a learning
curve oh my god such a long interview
though it's like an hour long hour and a
quarter long I'm pretty sure it was an
hour and half of just like them
questioning me and then it was like an
hour
so yeah I came back from my interview
and I felt like it could have gone a lot
lot better but I always think that I'm
just always quite pessimistic after
doing any sorts of interviews any sorts
of applications I think on some level
it's because I don't like to get my
hopes up I fear being disappointed or
that people will be like haha she
thought she'd get it and she actually
did and had jokes on her it's so
irrational but I think that's why I kind
of do just make myself believe that it
actually went bad and I'm definitely not
going to get this opportunity although
to be honest I think there is always
that part of me inside that always has a
little bit of hope even if on the
outside I'm telling everyone or there's
no way I'm gonna get it can anyone else
relate like I don't want other people to
know that I've got my hopes up because I
don't want them to know I'm disappointed
afterwards but anyway obviously I felt
like this interview went bad and so that
was actually what spurred me on to start
applying for research internships I was
like I need to be doing something this
summer so I was like well let's get
applying for the research internships
because the applications for those had
finally opened so I ended up putting in
applications or I plan to put in
applications at least to Oxford Cardiff
and Queen's University Belfast for
research internships I actually only
sent in one of those in the end all of
them required a CV a cover letter and a
reference from my director of studies I
spent a bit of time putting them
together but not a lot of time because I
heard back from Willis Towers Watson the
next day let's cut back to past page
okay so I just wanted to capture this
excitement on vlog but oh my god I'm
actually shaking um I've just been
offered the internship that I applied
for like Mitchell eat they just rang up
and said that they really liked me and
wanted to offer me the internship and I
can't believe it like I have only two
places and like I was through to the
assessment center stage but like I knew
a few other people were and whoa but
yeah I'm so pleased I made the effort to
travel for that interview I feel like
this will be of more use to me than
doing a research internship I think
getting
experience in the actuarial sector I
think that will help me decide more
between the two than experience and
research because like I'm at a
university I suppose as part of my
degree course we do like a project which
will kind of give us a bit of a taste of
research also having a internship under
my belt in the actuarial sector would be
really really useful when trying to
secure graduate placements and then
train properly as an actuary whereas I'm
not sure how useful a research
internship is when trying to get a place
and apply for funding for a PhD like I'm
not sure I mean I haven't looked into
that at all so I might be completely
wrong but I I feel like a research
internship isn't it doesn't have a lot
of sway with that so yeah
Willis Towers Watson rung me up and
offered me the internship and I was
genuinely shocked I had genuinely
convinced myself that I wasn't going to
get it but I'm so happy that I did I
just want to say now that I'm not
bragging at all about getting this
internship I genuinely am just really
pleased I've got it and quite shocked
and excited I feel like I put a lot of
time and effort into my application so
yeah and as I was saying I think
actually the actuarial internship is a
better option for me this summer them
the research internship I think it will
give me a clearer idea of which of the
two routes that I want to go down so
this internship is going to be for eight
weeks this summer after I finished my
second year of university I literally go
straight into the internship once term
is over I have a few weeks after exams
for partying and then it's back to work
I'll be like working in small teams they
give you quite early responsibilities
they assign you projects and clients and
your work on delivering actuarial and
analytical solutions to them it should
be interesting I'll be able to see
exactly what the life an actuary is like
and if it's for me so as for the other
applications I made Zurich
came back to me and were like you passed
the digital interview stage but I
haven't heard from them since so I'm
guessing that means I didn't make it to
their assessment centre a1 came back to
me and invited me to
Assessment Center which again was during
university term times I was like well I
can't make that and finally LCP I still
haven't heard back from LCP I'm not even
sure I did online tests for LCP and then
I always speak withdrew my application
for the research internship that I did
apply for yeah I feel happier now about
my plans for the future I feel like I've
really put some thought into it I'm
taking some time this summer to take a
step towards a possible future plans I
hope you guys have found this
interesting please give the video a like
if you enjoyed it and subscribe to see
more videos from me also follow me on
Instagram it's at under school page
underscore Y and a link will be in the
description and I'm gonna link bright
Network in a description as well because
I'm literally so impressed with their
service and yeah if you are applying for
internships or graduate jobs then I
highly recommend checking them out last
thing to mention is that this evening so
that's Friday the 29th of March I'm
going to be going live on this channel
we're just going to be chatting about
exam season and revision and all that
jazz be there at 7 p.m. this evening and
see you soon with another video bye
[Music]